# Description

Get your organization's authoritative map data into the hands of your workers with this suite of ArcGIS Runtime apps for .NET. 

- iOS app for iPhone or iPad
- Android app for Android phones and tablets
- UWP app for devices running Windows 10 
- WPF app for devices running Windows 7 and above 

Make use of custom web maps from your ArcGIS Online organization or use free maps available from sources like the [Living Atlas](https://livingatlas.arcgis.com). Functionality included in the Maps App example app:

- Basemap switching
- Loading webmaps from an organization
- Searching for an address or place (geocoding)
- Searching for a location on the map (reverse geocoding)
- Routing and turn by turn directions

This example suite of applications is open sourced so grab the code at GitHub and either configure the apps for your organization, or just learn how to integrate similar capabilities into your own apps!

# Workflow

# Developer Patterns

# Architecture

## Solution Overview
The 4 applications that make the Maps App .NET suite are all contained inside one solution. The diagram below represents how the solution is structured to make best use of shared logic between the apps:

_insert diagram image here_

The `MapsApp.iOS`, `MapsApp.Android` and `MapsApp.UWP` projects belong to the Xamarin Forms part of the solution. The code contained inside the `MapsApp.Xamarin.Shared` is common to the 3 applications. The 3 apps share one UI defined in the `StartPage.xaml` and some Xamarin specific logic.

The `MapsApp.WPF` project has its own UI defined in `MainWindow.xaml` which is independent of the Xamarin Forms UI. 

All 4 apps share the logic contained inside the `MapsApp.Shared` project. 

## Xamarin Forms Apps

The three individual apps contain the platform specific code associated with each platform. For the purposes of keeping the app as generic as possible, no changes have been made to the 3 apps, they are the same as when generated by the Xamarin Forms ArcGIS Template. 

## Xamarin Forms Shared Code

### Views

The Xamarin Forms apps use [Hierarchical Navigation](https://developer.xamarin.com/guides/xamarin-forms/application-fundamentals/navigation/hierarchical/) to switch between screens. There is a `View` for every page the application displays:

### Controls

### Helpers

### Extensions

## WPF App

## Shared Logic

### ViewModels

### Converters

### Commands

### Behaviors

### Binding Support

- preference for properties over methods or events. Properties are declarative and allow you to more easily specify intent instead of action
- 


# Customization